In the paper, receptive fields are modeled as nonlinear units, called "voxels", tuned to local motion-energy. Motion-energy is the speed of movement in the image, without any sensitivity to direction. The ideal speed for each voxel was determined by dividing the peak temporal frequency by the peak spatial frequency. Although direction was initially included in the decoding scheme, it didn't provide any additional information and was thus abbandoned. However, direction might become more useful with higher resolution fMRI. As a result of this search process for the ideal speed, it was discovered that the ideal speed for a neuron was correlated with it's eccentricity (distance from centre of visual field). This means that neural response to faster speeds correlated with greater distance from the center of the field of vision.
    
    Similar to direction, colour was also found to not be important, most likely because of the correlation between color borders and luminance in natural scenes.
    
    The neural-like units were then used with a hemodynamic (blood flow) coupling term so the filters were restricted by fMRI readings. They then used these filters on the test fMRI readings in a bayesian-like manner, by using the filters as a prior, to find the best matching movies (who were 1 second in length) out of the test set using a likelihood function. This approach is also known as the Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) reconstruction. To improve the accuracy of this mapping, the top hundred results were averaged over to create the final result.
    
    To evaluate the accuracy of the reconstructed movie clip, both the original and reconstructed movie were run through the same motion-energy analysis used to create the original filters. The accuracy was around 0.3, with 1.0 being a perfect reconstruction and chance being 0.01. Thus the reconstructor performed significantly above chance.
    
    Further improvements to this methodology could involve including later visual areas, as well as including the semantic meaning of the form.
